hey this is Preston Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions
start with a small square and then draw
a large square so that one vertex of the
large square passes through the midpoint
of the small square side as shown in the
diagram now shade this triangle in red
and shade this rectangle in red what
fraction of the total area is shaded in
red I saw this problem on Twitter and
many people had fun with it pause the
video if you'd like to give it a try and
when you're ready keep watching to learn
how to solve this problem
[Music]
so how can we solve this problem since
we're only interested in the fraction of
the total area that's in red we can
simplify matters by labeling this length
as one that means this length will also
be equal to one and the entire small
square side will have a length of two
this will also be equal to two we can
then use the Pythagorean theorem to
solve that the hypotenuse of this 1/2
triangle will be equal to the square
root of five
notice this will be the length of the
larger square side now we're going to
consider some similar triangles this
blue triangle will be similar to the red
triangle therefore the smaller leg has
to be half the length of the larger leg
so this will be a length of 0.5
furthermore we have another similar
triangle this triangle right here if we
label the longer leg as a then we have a
divided by two has to be the same ratio
as in this triangle here which is equal
to 2 divided by the square root of 5 we
simplify this and we get that a is equal
to 4 divided by the square root of 5 as
a result we can solve that this length
here will be the square root of 5 minus
4 over the square root of 5 which
simplifies to be 1 over the square root
of 5 we have all the necessary lengths
to solve this problem the red area will
be the sum of two shapes it'll be the
area of this which is one-half of 1
times 0.5 then we have the area of this
rectangle which will be the square root
of 5 multiplied by 1 over the square
root of 5 this all simplifies to be 1.25
we now want to calculate the total area
so we'll do that by calculating the area
of the large square this will be the
square root of 5 squared we then want
the area of this triangle which will be
1 times 0.5 all over 2 and then we have
the area of this triangle which is 1
times 2 all over 2 this all simplifies
to be 6.25 we now to
the area of the red shapes divided by
the total area and we get one point two
five divided by six point two five and
that simplifies to be one over five I'm
sure there many other ways to solve this
problem let people know in the comments
which way you solved it thanks for
watching and for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]